Okay. So, how do I say like... We have learned how to say, "You see.
He sees. They go. I help. He helps. We help."
So, but how do I say, "I see you. You see me.
I listen to you. You listen to me"? You might think, "Oh, okay." So, how do I say, "You see"?
Just you see, for a male.
> teshoof
Now, you might think, "Huh, this is very simple. Like, I'll just say teshoof ana" But if you put ana-
You-
... you are basically saying, um, "You see I."
Do you know what I mean?
If I wanna say, "You see them", or let's say... Uh, let's not say, "You see them." Let's say, "You see us. You see us." And you say "teshoof ne7na". You're not saying, "You see us." You're saying, "You see we."
It's- it's understood completely, but it's not correct. And we wanna say things correctly. Okay? So, let's start with how to say, "I see you. I see them," uh, and all of those. Also, guys...
Remember this list that I sent you for the verbs? We're almost... Not almost, but like, inshallah will be done with it soon. Are you guys, uh-
> Mm-hmm.
... uh, memorizing the verbs every week?
> Yeah.
> Hey.
> Fifty verbs.
> Hey.
How's it going with you?
> Uh, I'm at 32.
> We're in shock.
> I'm at 36. Oh, sah.
Oh, wow. Good job. We planned to do until 28 last week. Okay, good. You're making it easier for yourself. But guys, don't you notice that we have three verbs in blue?
> Hey.
And one verb in red.
> We do.
Let's leave the verb in red for later 'cause it's in red. It's a dangerous one. Let's talk about the ones in blue. Why are they in blue? Because for those verbs, you use a prep- uh, preposition. Sorry. Use the preposition, "To", with them. It's like, for example, when you say, "I see you," you mention you directly. But if you say, "talk", you say, "I talk to you.
I say to you." In English sometimes you say, "I send you", or, "I send to you." But in Arabic, it's very accurate. It's very literal. Like, when you speak Arabic, treat people like children. You say things to them very specifically.
Anyway, guys, remember when we talked about ownership in the beginning? And I told you they're very, very, very important.
And I'll tell you why they're important. Because in Arabic, we have two type of pronoun. I mean, like every language. Uh, but we have connective pronoun and a disconnective pronoun. So, when the first... When the person comes first, you use the pronoun you're used to which is 'ana', 'enta', 'entee', 'entoo', 'ne7na'. But when they come second, you don't use it. You use '-ik',
'-ich', '-kum', '-hum'. Those- those suffixes, those possessives will follow you everywhere.
Sabrin, could you pick any verb from here to us? Any verb that you can use with a person. Not like, "I walk." "I walk you?" No.
> Okay.
> Talk to.
Talk to. Nice. Also, I'll tell you what's the difference about "talk to". So, guys, if I wanna say, "talk to", I just say akallem.
sah ? If I wanna say, "I talk to you", for a male I say, akallemik.
Female, akallemich.
Plural, akallemkum. And then akallemna, akallemah, akallemha, and akallemhum. And that's it.
That's it. So, akallemkum, akallemna,
akallemah,
akallemha, and akallemhum.
And if I wanna say, "to me", me is the only different one. It's gonna be -nee.
So, though you wouldn't say this, but, "I talk to me."
akallemnee.
All right. Let's talk about knowing. So, if I wanna say, "I know me," I'm gonna say a3arf
a3arfnee.
How do I say, "I know them"?
> a3arefkum.
"I know them." Hmm.
> a3arefhum.
Very close.
> a3arefhum.
a3arefhum. But what if I said, "a3arefkum"?
> Uh-
What does it mean?
> "I know you all".
"I know you all".
Mumtaz. If I wanna say, for example, "I want to see you tomorrow."
Male, female, plural. Usually when I say "you", 'enta', I mean male.
But you- we can do all of them. So, how do I say, "I want to see you tomorrow"? Come on, guys. You know this. You can do this one.
> Aba- Aba shoofik
Yes.
Aba shoofik.
> Bukra. Bukra bacher.
Yes. Bukra, bacher, whatever you want to say.
What do you guys hear more, bukra or bacher?
> Bacher. Okay.
I think you guys hear more different dialects than me.
All right. If I wanna say for example, "I d- I- I don't hear you. I am not hearing you."
> Ma asma3... asma3... Ma asma3ik.
> Ma asma3ik.
Asma... Yeah, asma3ik or ma asma3ich.
[sneezes] Alhamdella. What are you guys gonna say to me now? [laughs]
> Oh, shit. [sighs]
> I didn't write that part down.
What did you say?
> I
> said, "I forgot to write that part down." [laughs] So, ma asma3ik means, "I don't hear you"?
[laughing] You just ignore me. Sorry, yes-
> Okay
... I don't hear you.
> Okay.
I don't hear you. It's okay. It's okay. Actually, I wanted to do a one with, like, a slight difference. So let's change it a bit. Let's say, "I can't hear you." "Can't hear you."
> Ma agdar.
Yeah, "Ma agdar asma3ik" Or, "Magdar. Magdar." We always join them together. I'm not gonna say, "Ma asma3." I'm gonna say, "Masma3. Ma agdarasma3ik"
Okay. Okay. If I wanna say, "I don't understand them."
> Ma afhamik? Ma afhamhum?
Ma afhamhum!  If I wanna say, "I hate her so much."
> Mm. Akrahich wayed.
This is, "I hate you," not, "I hate her."
> Oh, akrah-ha wayed
Yes, akrah-ha wayed
Do you know how to say, "I want to hit you"?
> [laughs]
It's adhreb. So how do I say, "I want to hit you"?
> Aba adhreb
Aba dhreb. You're just saying, "I want to hit."
> Aba dhrebik.
> Aba dhrebik.
Aba dhrebik. Okay. Now, how do I say, "I want to kiss you?"
It... Is it there in the book? Let me check.
> Aba aboosik
Yeah. Aba aboosik or aba aboosich. And if I wanna say, "I want to hug you."
> Is it the same as hold but-
No, no. [laughs] It's not the same.
Aba a7dhan. A7dhan is, "I hug." So if I wanna say like, "I hug my friend." Aba a7dhan sadeeqtee or sadeeqee. Or, a7dhanik or a7dhanich. So, a7dhan is to hug.
Okay. Now guys, what if I wanna say, "I am making you a coffee."
You might think, "Oh, I will just say asawik gahwa." But if you say this, I'm thinking you're making... I don't know. You're creating a human being. Also when you say, "I want to buy you a gift." Gift is hadhiya. Hadhiya. So you might think, "Oh, ashterik or ashterich hadhiya." But when you say, "Ashterik" directly, you are saying you're buying this person literally. Like, you are giving this person away and you're taking money for it.
You know?
It's like when you say for example, like, to sell. So abee3. If I say, "abee3ha ," I'm saying I sell her. Like she's slave or something. But if I wanna say, "I want to sell to her." Or, "I want to sell her..." I don't know, my bag, let's say. "abee3 something for her." Okay? And this is the one you guys will use for all the verbs in the list ataresh, attesel, agoul and when you wanna say you do something for someone or to someone. You know, in every language, in every language, if you guys speak any other languages or is English your second language, whatever, we have, um, [smacks lips] verbs with prepositions. But because we already have conjugations in Arabic, let's just do one preposition for now. And if you guys feel good and confident about it, we can do the rest because this is the safest preposition and this is the one we use the most. So basically, when we were doing all the verbs, you just say ashoofik, ashoofhum, ashufna. You just connect the possessive or the suffix directly but here, you say, "To this person."
So to me you say, "lee." To you it's, "lik".
lich.
likum.
lina.
lah
laha and lehom. So how would I use this one? This one is used, um, specifically or mostly with the verbs in the list (ataresh, attesel, agoul). What's the difference between common verbs and the verbs in this list? Now in Arabic, you have to say, "I send to you an email." You never say, "I send you an email." If I say ataresh... Let's say, "ataresh Ahmad email." I'm saying, I'm saying, "I'm sending Ahmad  somewhere," not, "I'm sending him something."
... who, who you are. So there is a very slight difference. This is what I meant when I'm saying when you speak Arabic, you speak very specifically as if you're speaking to a child. So for example, you will either say
Ataresh li Ahmed email, ataresh li Ahmed hadhiya .. I send to Ahmed a gift. I send to Ahmed an email, ۡataresh li Ahmed message. And if I wanna say I sent to myself ataresh li to you ataresh lik, ataresh lich, ataresh likum, ataresh lina, all right? Like when you wanna say I say to her.
If I wanna say I say to her, I'm gonna say 'agoul' I say and to her is 'laha'
Agoul laha kil shai... Let's say ۣٓkil shai... I tell her everything. This is how to say I say to or I tell because in Arabic we don't tend to say I tell a lot. We always say I, I say to. I say to. Also usually when we, we're starting conversation with someone and we're saying, "Hey, look, let me tell you something."
I say 'agoul lik'
or 'agoul lich' I don't know if you guys have heard it. Some people tell me they have heard it before. Also, since it already ends with L and the preposition starts with L, we tend to, because we speak fast and we connect everything together, we join them. So it sounds like it's one word ۡagoulik
or
agoulich But it's not really, it's because we say it fast. This is the original form and this is how it sounds and how it's said.
All right? So if you wanna tell someone something, you say agoulich or agoulik. Do you know this person?
Where can I find this?
All right. Also, when you say to call, so to call, to send and to say for those, those are mandatory,
very important. So if I wanna say I call someone in English, you just say, I call, like I call Ahmed, I call you, I call him directly. But in Arabic, no, I guess it's when you communicate with someone, I guess, um, you add to, you have to 'cause you like, you're communicating through something. Anyway. So if I wanna say, I call you, you say atesel lik or atesel lich. So if I wanna say, can I call you? I say ۡmumkin atasel lik, mumkin atasel lich. But if I just wanna say, can I call, I'm just saying can I call, I'm not saying, can I call you? Can I call him? No, you just say mumkin atasel. Just like that. Also, this is to call as in to phone someone, not to call someone like, "Hey, come here."
All right guys.
Mm.
> Okay. Yeah.
> Hey.
Hey, are you sure you guys are quite deep?
> We are processing [laughs].
That's not very reassuring. Sorry?
> We are processing [laughs].
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So with those it's important. With those it's very important if you say it, okay, I understand, but it's not, it's not correct. And I, I as a teacher, I should, uh, teach you the correct answer. Outside, I mean, you can make as many mistakes as you want. Anyway, so yeah, with the ones in blue it's important, but when is it not important?
It's when you say the verbs like to buy, to sell, to give, like when you say to do. So if I wanna say 'asawee gahwa' you're just saying I'm making coffee. If I wanna say I'm making coffee for them, I'm gonna say 'asawee lihum gahwa'
> Mm-hmm.
If I wanna say, for example, I sell my house, I'm gonna say 'abee3 bayty'. But if I wanna say, I sell her my house, 'abee3 laha bayty'. What if you say 'abee3ha bayty'. That's like I sell the woman. Okay, even if I try that makes sense in English, but it doesn't make sense in Arabic. It's like you're selling the woman and the house,
which is not what we mean. All right? Um, yeah, like also for example, if, um, do you guys maybe, uh, have Arab friends or Arab colleagues, like, you interact with them, you visit them and you eat and drink with them? 'cause this could be useful, useful for you.
> Yes.
Yes. So if I wanna tell someone, do you want me to pour some coffee or tea for you? You say aseb. Aseb is the verb to pour something. So 'aseb lik chai',
'aseb likum (all of you)
gahwa'
I pour for you some coffee.
If let's say I'm talking about a child, I say 'aseb
lah (to him) 3aseer'? What if I say 'asebah'? What does, what does that mean?
> Pour him? I pour him.
Yeah, I pour him. It's like the child is a drink and you're pouring the child.
This is what we imagine. Okay?
Also, another one would be 'a7et'
> But, just really quickly. So if you're pouring for a girl, it's laha?
Okay-
If you're pouring for a girl.
Yes.
Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. So if you're talking to, let's say you have your friend over and her daughter. So if you wanna tell the mom...... you want me to pour you some coffee, you say aseb lich gahwa?
And if you wanna ask the mom if it's okay for the daughter to drink coffee, you say aseb laha
gahwa
Got it?
> Sure thing.
Or still there is confusion about it?
> Uh-huh.
Okay, 7elo, 7elo. Like when you say a7et, it's to put something. Also to pour something. This is usually for... Oh, this is also for food, actually. But it's to pour out of the pot. a7et is like to put something for someone. Like a7et lihum
Let's say for them. Let's say someone is visiting and I'm asking my mom. Let's say a7et lihum tamer
You guys know what's tamer?
It's dates.
> Hmm.
tamer is dates. Let's say
a7et lah 7alawa. I'll put sweets for him. A7et laha fawwala
Guys, um, I don't know if you've ever been to maybe an Emirati house or maybe for men, because I think men have ... , or at work when there's something. Uh, we have snacks. But not like, uh, you know, popcorn and, uh, crackers and all. No, like as in, uh, cookies, fruits, uh, nuts. So this is the snacks that, uh, people usually, um, present when guests are there. And we call those fawwala,
like fruit, sweets, like baklava, like a bit for whatever. But like if you're talking about like, um, like candies or chocolate, that's not fawwala. That's just snacks, like in English, snacks.
All right? So a7et laha fawwala, I put before her some fawwala. Sabine, maybe you can use this with your neighbor, with your neighbors. 'Cause Sabine told me she has, um, she lives... She has Emarati neighbors, so you can use with them like a7et lihum something
Also, you can just have the thing with you, like you just say, "A7et lih. Do I put some for you?"
All right.
Okay. But what if I want to say, um, "I forget you"?
I just forget you.
Okay. It's 'ansaak'.
Do you know why it's there? Uh, why it's like this? Oh, first, when we have two vowels, the... this one wins. To be honest, this one is back to original Arabic, written Arabic because it's an actual letter but... Yeah. But we're never gonna say ansa lik, 'cause you usually just forget the person. You don't, you know, forget for them. You know what I mean? Also, like when you say, um, a3tee. So how do I say I give you?
> a3tee?
a3tik, a3tich. What if I say I pay you, I pay you money?
> adfa3k? adfa3k floos
Can you say it one more time?
> adfa3k floos.
Okay. But when you're saying adfa3 k, you're saying you're paying the person. Like you're paying by the person.
> Oh.
You know? So it's-
> Adfa3 lik
Yes.
> Okay.
Yes, adfa3 lik.
Like adfa3 lik cash
cash or card . Okay? But now, there is a logic behind it, there's a pattern. But I want you guys to answer me honestly. Do you think you are getting the logic behind when to add lik and when do you just add the suffix?
> Not quite.
> No, yeah. Getting there. Still understanding.
Okay. It's like when you write.
Okay, when you write. When you write for someone, um,
you have to say akteb lik.
because if you say aktebik that means you are writing this person literally.
So think about it. Is it something direct or indirect?
Like for example, when you say to cook,
we have two options, huh? Do you think... Which one are we going to use? Which one do you think you are going to use?
> Atbakh lik for you.
Mumtaz, because it's for you.
> Because I can't  cook you, okay.
This cook you is like... I mean, there are people that cook
who human beings but we don't want to do that. Like for example, to drink. Even though to drink doesn't work, like to drink for you-
> Mm-hmm
... don't do this. Right? Let's say to want.
Want, ooh, that's interesting.
Which one do you think is going to work?
It's okay, guys. It's okay. Make mistakes. I'm like, I'm like your mom in Arabic. [laughs]
> What, what's the word, sorry?
Want.
> Want. Abatik.
Okay. Just abak, abak, abach.
> Oh, so it's an- it ends in an A but you're not going to add like a-
Yeah, yeah. This is only... We only... We only add T. I'm happy that you remember this one. When we add T, it's only when you say "your", "my", "his" for ownership.
> So it's not like a feminine word then?
It is but with verbs, we don't count feminine, masculine words.
> Which brings me to a question I've had since yesterday, agra.
Yeah.
> So do you add a T for all the, um, uh, conjugations?
Hmm. So with verbs, when we talk about feminine, masculine words that end with A or AH or they're just masculine, usually... Not usually, always. Always, we're talking about nouns and adjectives and that's it. Not verbs. Verbs are excluded. We alread- we already conjugate them this way, like the way we're doing right now.
> So enty tagratoon or...
Tagrahoon.
> tagrahoon. Okay, got it.
tagrahoon, tagrahoon. Okay, guys. If I want to say "I take", which is... Which can be "I get", by the way. I get you something. So how do I say "I get you something"?
akhedh. Is it akhedhik or akhedlik? Which one do you think?
> akhed lik 'cause you're not getting them, you're getting something for them.
Thank you. You're getting something for them. Like when you say "to know someone".
> Hmm.
You say 3arafik because it's very direct. You know this person, not you know for them.
> Hmm.
I think someone was saying something also, right?
Like when you read. You read. You... I either say agrahk or agrah lik. Agrah lik is like I read for you. Like, let's say I'm telling my son or my daughter agrah lik or agrah lich, or both of them agralikum. agrah lik kitaab, I'm reading a book for you. But when I say agrahk, like you read this person, you understand them. It's poetic and dramatic. Of course it's not used in daily life, but it's grammatically correct. Like when you say "to hold", which is amsik. Am I gonna say amsikik or amsilik? Hmm.
> I guess it depends on the context, right? So you can hold-
Thank you. Yes.
Hello. Sorry. But yeah, also this is hold not as in like, let's say, to hug someone, but as in, let's say, usually-
> Yeah
... to hold a baby usually, okay? So amsikuh. So it's like I'm holding him, but for example, I can say amsik el baby lich. I'm holding the baby for you until you finish doing what you're doing.
> Okay.
Got it? It's like also when you ataresh. I can say ataresh. Like, I can say ataresh hui supermarket to get me something. I send my brother to the supermarket so he can send me something. So I'm literally sending him. But I can say ataresh lah, I send to him something.
Like when you say ayeeb, which is to bring. Let's say ana aba ayeebik hini. Aba ayeebik means I want to bring you, hini is here. So I'm... Let's say I'm traveling to a nice place and I wanna tell someone, "You know, I should bring you here." But if I wanna say, "I bring you something," Ayeeb lik, because you're bringing it for them.
Got it, guys? How do you-
> Yeah
... feel now about it?
> Okay.
It's okay, guys. It will... I think, uh, you will be there throughout the lessons. Um, I think you were better with conjugating the verbs than the first time. So for this one it'll also be the same. All right? But if you have any question, please let me know. Also, I will send you homework for this one 'cause this one needs homework.